---
num: "h01"
desc: "Guttag, Chapter 1"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-07-31 15:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-08-01 09:00:00.00-7:00
---

# Reading Assignment


Please read Chapter 1 in our textbook, "Introduction to Computation
and Programming Using Python, Revised And Expanded Edition" by John
Guttag:

Then, I'd like to invite you to write answers to the following
questions.  You are encouraged to actually write these long-hand on
paper.  The reason is that there is some evidence from the literature
on Educational Psychology that doing so (rather than typing into a
computer) may have beneficial effects on learning.  There is also
evidence&mdash;evidence collected from a meta-review by UCSB
Psychology professor Richard Mayer and his student Logan
Fiorella&mdash;that the following eight strategies are helpful to
learning:


1.  Learning by *summarizing*: writing a summary, in your own
    words, of what you think are the most important points from the
    material you've just read or heard.
2.  Learning by *mapping*: drawing a "concept map" (a particular
    kind of diagram) showing the relationships between/among key concepts
    from what you've just read or heard.
3.  Learning by *drawing*: drawing a picture (any picture) that helps you organize the infor    mation you've just read or heard
4.  Learning by *imagining*: similar to learning by drawing, but here you just "imagine" the    picture in your mind.  (may be used when you don't have drawing materials handy.)
5.  Learning by *self-testing*: taking a quiz about the material
    you've just read or heard; e ither a quiz devised by the instructor,
    of your own making, or from a fellow student.
6.  Learning by *self-explaining*: explaining the concepts to
    yourself out loud just have you've read or heard them.
7.  Learning by *teaching*: explaining the concepts to another
    student just have you've read or heard them.
8.  Learning by *enacting*: acting out the ideas you've just read
    or heard with some kind of movement, skit, or dialogue

So I'd like to explore some of these strategies in learning the
material from Guttag's book.  In this homework, we'll focus on
*summarizing*, and *self-testing*.


<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(10 pts) Chapter 1 discusses declarative vs. imperative knowledge.  How would you explain the difference?  

(You are invited to read, understand, then summarize in your own words, rather than copying verbatim from the book.)

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" class="page-break-before">

(20 pts)  How would you explain the difference between fixed-program and stored-program computers?

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) In the context of describing the Church-Turing thesis, Guttag mentions that some functions are "not computable", and gives an example.  What is this example of an "uncomputable function"? 

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) Computer Science professors and students tend to argue a lot about whether one programming language is "better" than another.   What is the signficance of the notion of Turing Completeness to this kind of discussion?   
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(20 pts) So far, we've provided some questions to guide your reading.  However, in many university level courses, you'll need to develop the skill of deciding for yourself what the important parts are in a reading passage.  

Please read the rest of the material on pages 4, 5 and&nbsp;6 and provide your own summary of what you think the most important concepts on these pages are, confining that summary to the space provided below.    For each important concept, also come up with a practice quiz/exam question you might pose to a friend if you were helping them study.

You may want to write out your answers on scratch paper first, then copy them to the space below. 

</li>


</ol>
