---
num: "h04"
desc: "Guttag, Chapter 4"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-08-03 09:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-08-04 09:00:00.00-7:00
---
 In this homework we will practice the art of tracing code to understand how functions and recursion work. Code tracing is the process of reading a piece of code line by line and visualizing what would happen if it were to actually run on your computer. This is not only a way to test your understanding of programming concepts but also an essential tool for debugging your programs.


Please read Chapter 4 in the Guttag textbook, then answer these questions.

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(10 pts) On page 34, Guttag contends that you can solve any problem that is computationally solvable using the programming constructs from Chapters 1-3. List four main reasons for using *functions* in your program. Write your answer based on your entire reading of Chapter 4, rather than the arguments provided by Guttag on page 34 alone.

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(10 pts) Trace the execution of the following code and answer the questions that follow:

<pre><code> 
    def swap( x, y):
      tmp = x
      x = y
      y = tmp
      print x, y
    a = 3
    b = 4
    print a, b
    swap(a,b)
    print a, b
</pre></code>
1. Identify the formal and actual parameters in the above code
2. Using diagrams similar to those in Figure 4.4 on page 39 of Guttag, show the state of the runtime stack when the program execution is a) at the print statement prior to the call to the swap function b) at the print statement in the body of the swap function and c) at the print statement following the call to the swap function
3. Using box diagrams similar to those in Figure 2.2 on page 11 of Guttag show the values of the variable <pre><code> a, b, x, y </pre></code> when the program execution is a) at the print statement prior to the call to the swap function b) at the print statement in the body of the swap function and c) at the print statement following the call to the swap function
4. What are the values printed to console when the above code is executed?

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" class="page-break-before">

(10 pts) What is a function specification and why is it used in programming?

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" >

(10 pts) Give an example (that is not used in the book) to illustrate the basic ingrediants of a recursive function implementation

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" >

(10 pts) In the implementation of the program given in Figure 4.8 of Guttag, what is the purpose of the helper function <code> isPal(s) </code>? 

</li>

</ol>
