---
num: "h04"
desc: "Guttag, Sections 4.1, 4.2 4.3"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-08-10 09:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-08-11 09:00:00.00-7:00
---


Please read Sections 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 of the Guttag textbook, then answer these questions.

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(20 pts) On p.&nbsp;34, Guttag contends that you can solve any problem that is computationally solvable using the programming constructs from Chapters&nbsp;1-3. List four main reasons for using *functions* in your program. Write your answer based on your entire reading of Chapter&nbsp;4, rather than the arguments provided by Guttag on p.&nbsp;34 alone.

</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">

(20 pts) What is a function specification and why is it used in programming?

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;" >

(20 pts) Explain via an example the basic ingredients of a recursive function implementation. Try to use an example that is different from those used in your reading.
</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" >

(20 pts) In the implementation of the program given in Figure 4.8 of Guttag, what is the purpose of the helper function `isPal()`? 

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="list-style-type: none" class = "page-break-before" >
In the following questions we will practice tracing code to understand how functions work. Code tracing is the process of reading a piece of code line by line and visualizing what would happen if it were to actually run on your computer. This is not only a way to test your understanding of programming concepts but also an essential tool for debugging your programs. Trace the code given below and answer the questions that follow.

```python 
    def swap(x, y):
      tmp = x
      x = y
      y = tmp
      print x, y

    a = 3
    b = 4
    print a, b
    swap(a,b)
    print a, b
```
</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:2em;">
 (4 pts) Identify the formal and actual parameters in the above code
</li>

<li markdown="1">
(12 pts) Using diagrams similar to those in Figure 4.4 on page 39 of Guttag, show the state of the runtime stack and the values of the variables `a`,`b`,`x` and `y` when the program execution is at the print statement specified in each of the following points in the code:  

<style>
table.full-width-table { width: 100%; }
table.full-width-table * th { width: 33%; }

</style>

<table class="full-width-table">
<tr>
<th markdown="1">(a) prior to the call to the `swap` function </th>
<th markdown="1">(b) in the body of the  the `swap` function </th>
<th markdown="1">(c) following the call to the `swap` function </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="padding-bottom:16em;">&nbsp;</td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</table>

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">
(4 pts) What are the values printed to console when the above code is executed? 
</li>



</ol>
